---
weight: 614
title: Romans 6:4 - Spiritual Depression
authors: Lenny
categories: null
tags: [Depression, "Martyn Lloyd-Jones 钟马田"]
date: "2022-08-18"
description: 
draft: false
lastmod: "2022-08-18"
series:
toc: true
---
The Book of Romans 罗马书  

(罗六14) 

<!--more-->
---
<iframe width="360" height="200" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pidNj9rkLZw" title="Spiritual Depression – A Sermon on Romans 6:14" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I should like to call your attention this morning to the words which are to be found in Paul's epistle to the Romans in the sixth chapter, nd in particular, perhaps the 14th verse, the 14th verse in the sixth chapter of Paul's epistle to the Romans,  
>*For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace*.   

For sin shall not have dominion over you. For we are not under the law, but under grace. We will resume our consideration of a theme since the second Sunday morning of this present year, namely the theme of what we have described as spiritual depression. In other words, we are considering the case of large numbers of people. While the clearly and obviously Christians are not happy, they can almost be described as miserable Christian. And we are considering this theme as they have been indicating repeatedly, not merely because it's tragic to think that there should be any Christians in such a condition. But still more because of the failure of such people, to witness to the faith and the glory of the faith, especially at a time like this. When the world outside the church is so bankrupt, and is looking feverishly and helplessly for comfort and consolation, and for light. So we're looking at it for those reasons, it is actually something quite incongruous, the very terms of the contradiction in and of themselves, miserable Christian, depressed Christian, spiritual depression. The thing is intolerable, and therefore, we must deal with it. And we've been doing so by considering the various causes of this condition. It can arise from many different causes, and each one has its appropriate remedy and treatment. It's all found in the Scriptures. And that is why Christians must live on the scriptures and by the scriptures. <b>If a man doesn't live in the scriptures, well, he is bound to be depressed, he is bound to fail, he is bound to be miserable</b>. We can't live without it. It's our food. We know nothing approximate. And as I've been finding out on many of these Sunday mornings, there is a sense in which it can almost be said that finally, <b>the one great cause of spiritual depression is ignorance of the Scripture</b>. And here again, we shall find that illustrated as we come back to a consideration of this great sixth chapter of the epistle to the Romans. <b>The particular cause of spiritual depression, which is dealt with here is a sense of the failure and the frustration that often arises in the life of the Christian because of the problem of sin</b>. I'm sure that all ministers and pastors would agree with me when I say that probably nothing brings people to us more frequently then some problem connected somehow or another with failure in the living of the Christian life. So I'm falling into sin, some sin that Harris's and bothers and gets this individual down constantly, in spite of all efforts and endeavors, the problem of sin. Some particular sin or perhaps a number of now, that is the problem that is rarely dealt with in this great chapter. The Apostle takes it up, of course, in its context. He is interested primarily in the way that certain people misunderstand the doctrine of grace. And because he has said at the end of the previous chapter where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. Some are tempted to say well, very well if that is really discontinuing sin that grace may abound. And he is out to ridicule any such suggestion and to show how it displays a complete failure to understand the very basis of the Christians position. But in doing that, incidentally, he does show us in the most amazing men are the way in which the Christian does have victory over sin. Sanctification in the epistle to the Romans does not start in chapter eight, but in chapter six. And there's no need to wait until we get on to chapter eight. It's all in chapter six. And I want to try to show you again this morning how the apostle folds to us and shows us this way of true victory. Even while we're in this life and in this world. Now, we've already looked at this chapter twice. But I come back to it again, because I want if I may, to gather up what I said on the two previous occasions and to apply it because the apostle himself does that very thing very well, and let us put it like this. The key to the understanding of this chapter, as it is, indeed, <b>the key to the understanding of the entire Christian life is the doctrine of the union of the Christian when the Lord Jesus Christ</b>. That's the key. He is, he is unfolded that in the previous chapter, chapter five, where his whole argument, you'll remember has been this, that by nature, by birth, we are all in Adam. Adam was the head of the human race. He was the federal head and representative, but more than that, the entire human race was in Adam, if you like in the lines of Adam. So that when Adam fell, we all fell. Now, that's the teaching of the Scripture. And my dear friends, it's no use distributing the Bible throughout the world if you deny its doctrines, that's what the Scripture teaches. That all men are in Adam, and that when Adam fell, the whole of mankind fell, and became guilty in it, and inherited all the consequences of his sin and of his fall. So we are all born in sin with Adam. But and this is the glory of the gospel. It is equally true to say of all who are Christians and to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, that they are in Christ. That the relationship which they bear to him is exactly parallel with the relationship that all mankind by nature best weather(??). As we read(??) in Christ in Adam(??) So are we in Christ, as in Adam, all men die. So in Christ, shall all men be made alive and so on. Now, that is absolutely fundamental. And you notice the apostle goes on repeating it in this sixth chapter. No way(??), not that so many of us were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death. Yes, but we've been baptized into him. We are in Him. And what he unfolds in this chapter, you'll remember is how everything that is true him(??) is true of us. All that he has done, we have done it because we are in it. Now that we've dealt with that I say on two previous occasions in this way. The first argument was that we have died with Christ. We've been baptized into his death, and when the Lord Jesus Christ was dying on that cross on Calvary, all believe in Him were dying with him. Now we've worked that out in detail, because it's absolutely vital. We were crucified with Him, we died with Him, we were buried with Him, we've risen with him, we are seated at the right hand of God in the heavenly places with Him and in Him. The results of all this we have seen is that we are dead to sin, dead to the law. But not only that, we went on Easter Sunday morning to point out this other conclusion. That as it is true to say that we died with him, it is equally true to say that we have risen with Him obviously. If we are in Him, everything that he has done, we have done. So we are risen with Christ. Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him which means that we are living with him. We no longer belong to the realm of the dead. You remember how he puts it there in the 13th verse,   
>*Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead*....

We've risen with Christ. And we remembered how the apostle in the third chapter of the epistle to the Colossians puts it in one of the boldest things he ever said in his life. When he said he are(??) dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. That's where you are. Now. That is his greatest arguments so far, <u>in Christ joined indissolubly mystically to him</u>. These things are true of us. And we've been emphasizing the fact. That's the whole purpose of the chapter, to state the fact <u>we have died, we have risen</u>, and so on. But now if we are truly, to be living the Christian life and to be experiencing its blessings, and especially to be enjoying its victories. We must apply all this. And the apostles does the application follows. And you want particularly particularly, therefore, to consider the verses in the chapter this morning in which he does the application. The important one in a sense is verse 11. Listen, Likewise, now, that's it,    
>*Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ*……  

That's the application. And there are other parts of the application also. But let me try to summarize the whole teaching for you under a number of propositions. <b>The first is this, that if we want to live in to enjoy the Christian life, and above all, I say that to live it victoriously. The first thing we have to do is to realize the truth about ourselves in Christ</b>. Now, the way of victory in the Christian life is not primarily just to be praying and to be looking to Christ. The first thing we have to do is to realize the truth about ourselves in Christ. That's the purpose of this, this chapter. And again, I must point out how so much holiness teaching completely ignores this sixth chapter of Romans. It depreciates it, it says, all we must hurry on to the eighth chapter with the Holy Spirit is first mentioned, as if there's no victory in chapter six, but it's all here my friends. And so you'll see our theories can often depreciate scripture. And we must always test our every theory by the test of Scripture itself. And here is the apostles method. reckon he says, reckon yourselves likewise, therefore you'll notice the inevitability of it(??). But what does this term `reckon` rarely mean? Well, you can translate it, if you like, like this, `it can be read, regard yourselves therefore`, or in the same way, `regard yourselves as those that are dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God in Jesus Christ`. Or if you prefer another phrase, `acount yourself`, account yourself. That's it, you compute you account, you regard yourself in this way. Oh, yes, but the vital question is what is even that mean? Now here, I must be careful to point out that he does not mean that you just act as if this works. Now there are some have interpreted this verse in that way. This, of course, you're not really dead on to sin. But you're you're if you want victory, you're to act and live in such a way as if you were dead on to the sin. <b>And it isn't true of course, but you act as if it were, and as you go on acting as if it were, it will become, oh, that's not scripture. <u>That's psychology</u></b>. That's cool, isn't it? You are no better but you say every day and in every way, I am getting better and better. And the theory is that as you say that you actually will be getting better. You're trying to persuade yourself for something that isn't rarely, but it's a good thing to do. It's encouraging, it's stimulating, and as you do that, you'll feel better. It isn't that. That isn't what he said. The Apostle doesn't tell us here to act as if this were true. His appeal is this, <b>realize that it's true</b>. how different it is true. I'm not persuading myself about something that isn't true. I am to realize that it is true. I am to grasp it, lay hold upon it, and truly to realize it in my constant thinking as well as in my living. In other words, there is no element of make belief in this. There is no element even a persuasion about it. It isn't something I have to persuade myself about. I am simply to believe the categorical statements of the Scripture. That because I am in Christ, I have died with Christ. These old men I once was by nature gone, he is dead, he is finished. He is no longer in existence. Well, the apostle has been saying that hasn't been knowing this that our old men was crucified with Him. Ah, yes, but they say crucifixion is a very slow process. <b>And it's quite true to say that the old man has been crucified, but he is still there. It's a very, it takes a very long time to die from crucifixion. My friend, be careful what you're saying</b>. If that is true of the old man is equally true of Christ and He is no longer he is not yet dead. The Apostle statement is this that everything that has happened to Christ has happened to me. My old man is not undergoing `a lingering process of dying`, he is dead. He's as dead as Christ is dead. In that physical sense. He's gone. The thing has happened. Now, I pointed out on Easter Sunday morning, oh, the apostle is at great pains to emphasize this in verses 9 and 10. Listen, 
>*knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him*.  
>*For in that he died, he died unto sin once*...  

which means once and for all,   
>*but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God*.   

Isn't this argument Christ has finished with death. He's finished with dying, he has died. He's completed the act once and for all. Then verse 11,   
>*Likewise, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin*.  

Can anything be stronger? It isn't `a lingering process`, it's finished with as it's finished within the case of Christ, likewise, understand, realize, regard yourselves as those who have finished with this. You when it's finished in Christ, you yourselves have died with him. When other than that I say is the thing that we started. We are to realize that we died with Christ. We are to regard ourselves as those therefore who have risen with him that Christ is now our life. <b>I live yet not I but Christ lives in me. That's it. That's what he means by reckon yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord</b>. Now that as I understand this teaching is the key to it all. And if we're not clear about that, well, I say it again, at the risk of being misunderstood. <b>If you don't realize that and implemented, all you're praying about your sin will probably not help you</b>. 



And you can go the round of meetings seeking for some experience and you won't get it, you may get a psychological experience. You may feel better in certain respects, because there are people who can testify to having had marvelous deliverance from particular things that worries them or not Christians at all. Psychology can do that. I remember the very dramatic case once of a man who had been a terrible drunkard. He'd signed pledges, he'd listened to appeals from his wife and children. He'd read books on the subject, he'd have given many things as it were to give it up, but he couldn't. that on one occasion, he had been guilty of terrible debauchery, and spent a very terrible day and night. That last he'd gone home and had gone to sleep. And in the morning, he got up and was dressing and having to look at himself in the mirror and was so horrified and shocked at what he saw that it came with such psychological power to him, that he literally never drank again. Now that sort of thing can happen. So let us be careful, as we preach experiences rather than the teaching of the Scripture. You don't sound your doctrine on experiences. It's the doctrine that should lead to the experience. Very well. I say this is basic and fundamental. What the apostle tells a man who's being troubled and helpless by sin is not just simply to surrender it and to wait for victory. He says, wrecking yourself to be dead indeed on and you've got to do it. Nobody can do this reckoning for you. It isn't a state of passivity. You and I have literally got to do this to ourselves and with ourselves, constantly, day by day. It's the apostles teaching. It's the inspired Word of God. So that I say the first step is to realize this great teaching about the union of the believer with Christ and to work out its implications. It's a absolutely central and vital. But let me come on to the second part. The second thing in the light of all that, obviously is to be clear in our minds as to where sin comes in therefore,
if that is the position of the Christian that is dead, the old man is finished with and he is now alive with Christ with his life, where the sin come into such a life. Well, the answer is this. Sin comes in, in what the Apostle calls our mortal body. In the sixth verse, he puts it like this knowing that our old man is crucified with Him, that the body of sin might be destroyed. It hasn't yet been destroyed. The old man has died in order that this body of sin might be destroyed. And then you see, you'll get it again, in the 12th verse in the appeal, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body. He doesn't say Let not sin reign in you. He says, Let not sin reign in your mortal body. That's Listen, the body still is not ready. That is why the apostle you remember in the 23rd verse of the eighth chapter puts this. He says that the whole creation groaners and prevailed in pain together until now, and not only they, but ourselves also which have the first fruits of the Spirit. even we ourselves groan within ourselves waiting, waiting for what? Waiting for the adoption. What's that, to wit, the redemption of our body. Sin is still here, in the organization of our body, our mortal body, our flesh, the old man has gone Yes, but sin is still here, in my body in my physical being, which includes the mental, my mind and my understanding, as well as my physical processes, my instincts and all these things, sin is still there, in this mortal body. And you remember how the apostle had put it so clearly in the seventh chapter also? Here it is again. Now then he says it is no more either to it, but sin that dwells in me, and we repeat it. Now, if I do that, I would not it is no more either to it, but sin that well as in this sin in the mortal body. That it seems to me again, is another most important principle to grasp. Because you'll see again, we can so easily go astray at that point. There are some who claim a kind of perfection. They say that sin has been taking right out of them altogether. They've got a clean heart, there's no sin in them at all. They've been entirely cleansed from sin. Clearly, the apostle Paul didn't believe that he didn't claim that he didn't teach them. For the good reason, as I shall show you later on that he exhorts Christians to Mortify therefore, if he live after the flesh, she shall die, but if he through the Spirit to modify the deeds of the body, and in the First Corinthians, the ninth chapter, he again tells us that he has to keep under his body. Sin is there. So that the teaching is not that we are entirely delivered and emancipated from sin in this life, not at all, I in a spiritual sense am but sin remains in my mortal body in my flesh. But what a vital distinction it is to know that I myself, am free. The old men has gone, but sin just remains in that way. Isn't it like this, isn't it like the children of Israel? You will remember they were taken out to the bondage and the servitude in the captivity of Egypt. They were no longer in Egypt. They were in Canaan, yes, but they got problems in Canaan. The nations were left in canon and they were worrying them as pricks and in their eyes and thorns in their sides. They were no longer in bondage in Egypt, they are in Canaan, yes, but they've got this fight to wedge even in Canaan. It's something like that, there is a residue or remnants that remain. On the other hand, let us be careful to understand this. That's a Christian is not one who goes through this life of mourning and defeated and grumbling. Now there have been Christian people who put it like that, the you know, pursuing the perfectionist, and those who talk about an entirely cleansed heart. They have not given the impression that the Christian in this life and in this world has a very weary defeated life, that he's always going down and he's always defeated. they misinterpret the seventh of Romans. I mustn't go after that this morning. But I say The distinction is this. That sin is in my mortal body. Not in me as such. I mean by me the spiritual man.
Well, very well, if that's the second proposition, this leads me to the third, and this is the most glorious of all. We have to realize the certainty of our victory. Listen. Now, that's the 14th. Listen to it again, for sin, SHA shall not have dominion over you, for ye are not under the law, but under grace. Now, that is, again, a categorical and an absolute state. And yet, you know, people are afraid of it. I was reading a commentator on this only this last week, and he having gone almost entirely with me so far as I've spoken healer to suddenly becomes frightened at this point, he puts it like this. He says, this means this, that as we put into practice, verses 12, and 13, which tells us, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that he should obey it, neither yield your members as instruments unto sin, but yield them unto God, and your instruments and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. He says, As you do that, sin shall not have dominion over. For which if I had been talking to him, I would have said, thank you very much. And thank you for nothing. It's simply tautology. So if it means that it simply means this, that as I refrained from sin, sin shall not have dominion over me. But what comfort is there in that? Yes, the apostle wrote these words in order to give us the greatest comfort that we can ever have. He doesn't say that as he went, I do certain things that sin shall not have dominion. He says, for its introduced by four, which means this, not that it's a result of something that has gone before, it is the reason for the thing that has gone before. And therefore I say it is a categorical and a positive statement. It is an assertion. And what he tells us is this, that you and I as Christians are not engaged in a hopeless fight against sin. We are assured of victory at the very beginning. sin shall not have dominion over you. It's an assertion. It's a proclamation. Our victory as Christians of our sin is absolutely certain. It's absolutely vital. Now listen to it. We are saying it in that first team universe which says this praise the Lord, for his glorious, never shall his promise fail. God has made his saints victorious, sin and death shall not prevail. Now, that's something to be certain of. And the Christian, according to the apostle Uriel should now in the present, be absolutely certain of his victory of a sin and his victory therefore over them, they shall not, they will not be allowed to prevent. Well, now then why is this? Why is this victory of a certain why is it that we can say and should say that sin shall not have dominion over us, while he gives us the reason for he are not under the law, but under grace? What do you mean by this? Well, let us work it out. See, sin shall not have dominion over the Christian because he is not under law. What does that mean? Well, it means this that while we are under law, we are under the power and under the dominion of sin. Why is that? Well, the apostle answers that question in the Great 15 Chapter, the first Epistle to the Corinthians where he says that the sting of death is sin. And sin is the law. The law is the strength of sin. So that while we are under the law, we are under the strength and the power and the domination of sin. How does that come about? Well, it is the function of the law, to define sin, to search it out and to convict us of it. And that is why the sin the law is always something which is under conduct and into condemnation. it discovers us and it exposes us hidden masks. It holds us false in the court, and it brings its accusations against us.
We are under its Dominion in that sense. But another way in which it is true is this.
That while I'm under the law, I am left to my own strength only. The Lord examines me, it condemns me, it defines sin. He tells me what I ought to be and what I ought to do, but he doesn't help me to do it. So that's why the apostle in the next chapter you see in the third verse says, For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, weak through your flesh and nine, it says, there's the test, go on and do it. But I can't do it. I haven't the strength I haven't the power. I haven't the vigor. So the more the law comes to me and indicates what I ought to be, the more as it were, it puts me under the dominion and under the power of sin. But indeed, the apostle goes further than that. It says, he says this. That law, that the law because of sin in me, actually stimulates sin with him. He puts it like this. What shall we say then is the law of sin? God forbid. Nay, I have not known sin, but by the law, for I have not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, rockin me, all men are concupiscence. For without the law of sin was dead, but for I was alive without the law once, but when the Commandment came, sinned revived, and I died. And the commandment which was ordained to life, I found to be unto death, for sin, taking occasion by the commandment deceived me. And by it flew me wherever the law is holy, and the commandment wholly unjust and good. But the trouble, as he goes on to say, is in myself, sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is good, that sin by the commandment might become exceedingly sinful. Now, the essence of that is this. Because we are sinful because of our fallen nature with ever, which we've inherited from him. The very law that comes to us and tells us not to do certain things, and to do others has the effect of encouraging us to do wrong. Well, her we're like this. Sometimes by telling children and young people not to do certain things, you're introducing them to those very things? Oh, yes. In your moral teaching, you're telling them about the horrors of these things, the terrible results which they lead to? Yes, but concupiscence is within desire and lust. And it takes hold of this. It says, this is interesting. Oh, that must be pleasurable. Why do men do it? And they begin to think about it and declutter. But in the end by doing it, if you hadn't told them not to do it, they wouldn't have heard of it, and they'd never have done it. That's what he's saying. And isn't it true against temptation? Be very careful, my friend, I suggest to you that as you read that book, you will find your very lusts and passions stimulated. With your mind, you'll be trying to say I want to avoid this, but something else within you will be gloating over it. And you'll like all the details. Or as I've often said, again, from this pulpit. That's why people delight in reading all these details about divorce cases and murders and things like that, isn't it? There's something in it that appeals to us. So that the very law of God which is good and holy, which condemn sin, has the effect of inciting authenticity. So that as long as we're only under the law, sin will have dominion over us. And to the pure, all things are pure us, but we are not pure. And therefore the things that are pure become defiled, to us, we twist them, we pervert. And therefore it is important to realize that while we are under law, we are always under the dominion and the control of sin. law does not deliver. It was never meant to deliver. And moral teaching will never solve the moral problem. It can't do it, because man's nature is wrong. In that condition, therefore, there is no freedom from the tyranny and the power of sin, which we have inherited from Adam. Therefore he says, sin shall not have dominion over you. Why? Because you will no longer under law. But let's put it positively. We shall not be under the dominion of sin because we are on Hold on Grace.
What do you mean by that? Well, it means this. We are in an entirely different position. And we are in an entirely different condition. The Christian is no longer vainly trying to make himself a better men by applying law and by trying to conform to the law. He's finished with that he's not under law, he's under grace. What's that mean? Well, it means he's rejoicing in God's free favor. He has heard and he has believed the gospel, which tells him that in spite of his failure and his sin, God has forgiven him, that God sent His Son into the world made him out of a woman and under the law, that he might redeem them that are under the law. He has heard and believed the marvelous proclamation, that his guilt has been expiated that Christ has died for it, and burn its penalty, and that God has forgiven it. Not only that, that God has given him the righteousness of Christ, indeed, that he's in Christ. So his whole attitude is different. He's no longer trying to make himself something. He's been made something. He has received it as a gift from God. He's been given it freely without doing anything at all in his sins. God justifies the ungodly. So he's dead to the law finished with the law. But he's risen with Christ. He's got a new nature. He's got new desires. The Law of God is no longer outside, and it's written in his mind and imprinted in his heart. He wants to do it is no longer against the grain. It's no longer grievous. It's the very thing he desires. He loves it, he wants it. Yes, but even more than that, he's a child of God. God has adopted him into his family. He's been giving this dude he's become a partaker, of this divine nature. Indeed, we can go further we can say this. And this is the way I think the apostle really meant it chiefly. Because all that I've just been saying is true of him. He knows that he is one whom God himself is bringing unto glory. Now, that's not my statement, you'll find that put in those very words, in the second chapter of the Epistle to the Hebrews, in a most remarkable statement, in the 10th, verse, listen, for it became him from whom are all things, and by whom are all things in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation, perfect through suffering. That's the teaching. And it's the teaching. God is bringing his sons unto glory. He's chosen us, he's elected us. He set us apart, he sanctified us by the Spirit, put us there in that position for himself. And what's he doing? He is bringing us unto glory. I know of nothing more comforting and consoling than that. And that is why you sin shall not have dominion over us. Because God is bringing us into glory. He has put His Spirit into us and the Spirit is working within us. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God that work within you. This is being under grace, you see, the new principle, the new power, the working of God. Not only that, I can see this here, which has begun the good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. If you're a child of God, God has started to work in you, and he's going on with it until you're ultimately in glory. sin shall not have dominion over you. Because you're in God's purpose, and because His purpose is to bring you to glory. Do you know it means this? Because you're God's child, and because it is his purpose to bring you to glory. If you don't respond to His gospel in its appeal, he'll just fire you. That's the argument again of 12. Hebrews, isn't it? The Lord chestnuts who may love us, He scourges every tsunami is cold. And if you want all your Christians and we're not obeying God, and the leading of the Spirit, don't be surprised if God chastises you. You may lose your money, you may lose your business, you may fail in your profession, you may lose your health, your wife may lose it your children may be taken from you, my friend, if you're in the hands of God, be careful. He will bring you to perfection. Since shall not have dominion over you, even if it means test ism I go even a step further.
We are going to be meeting in a few moments at the communion table. And when we meet, we read together what Paul said to the Corinthians, in the first epistle and in the 11th chapter. And you'll remember it, let me read it to you, let's some of you may not stay for the communion. Let a man who says examine himself. And so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh, unworthily eateth and drinketh judgment damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body for this cause. Many are weakened, sickly among you, and many sleep, which means many of dead for this cause, because they didn't examine themselves. They didn't realize what they were doing when they came there. They didn't realize the relationship to God in Christ. And because of that, many of them were weak, and some of them were ill and sick and laid aside. And somebody he died. That doesn't mean they were lost. No. But it means that God because they were history of them was chastising them. sin shall not have dominion over you. It's uncertain as that. And in other words, we must emphasize this note of absolute certainty and assurance which is in the world. The apostle is simply saying here I say categorically that because we are joined to Christ, we are certainly inevitably going to be delivered entirely from sin. And that is why we should wait for the adoption to with the redemption of our body. Now there it is, the way in which we fight the problem, and the Battle of sin. It should fill us with joy and with assurance and with absolute certainty, and the God of the Lord is Ever our strength very well to conclude. In the light of all this, there is this final exhortation Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body. argue without refusing, say, secondly, yield not your members as instruments of unrighteousness under sin, positively, yield the ourselves under God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness under God. And in turn, notify through the Spirit, the deeds of the body, notify your members which are on the earth. In other words, realizing the position, realizing especially this truth, that God is bringing you unto glory, and that the victory of a sin is absolutely certain and assured that nothing can prevent it and nothing can separate you from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus, our Lord, therefore, don't heal to sin. Don't let his rule even in your mortal body, mortified your body, and the deeds of the body modifies the members of your body that are still on us. but yield yourselves and every member of your body, every faculty and interest that you possess, and tirely unto God and unto righteousness. And so you will actually experience increasing victory over sin in every form, and in every guy's even while you are in this life. And in this one, that's the position and I say as a close, that this is true victory based upon the truth and upon the doctrine, that I am in Christ. Head with him risen with him. Yes, there may have called the earth also justified and do me have justified them he has also lorries I am realizing this. I face sin in a new way. I say it shall not have dominion And I mustn't allow it.
I won't allow you to reign in my mortal body, it doesn't belong to me. It's another realm, I am dead to them. And therefore, I must not yield to it or make any concession to it. And as I say that and as I act in that way, I know that the Spirit of God is the whole time working in me, both to will and to do that very thing. And so, my victory is assured, I am no longer despondent. It's no longer a hopeless struggle. I know that I am in Christ, and that eventually my body even shall be delivered. And that I shall be complete and entire without spot or blemish, or fault or wrinkle or any such thing. complete, perfect in Christ in the presence of that.