---
weight: 2
title: The Secret to Life
authors: Vlad Sacchuk, edited by Lenny Lin
categories: null
tags:
description: 
draft: false
date: "2022-11-13"
lastmod: "2022-11-13"
series: null
toc: true
---

<iframe width="360" height=auto src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/hp5PlBW2sXc" title="THIS IS THE SECRET TO LIFE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<!--more-->
---

I want to share with you a secret, to overcome the devil to get rid of guilt, to find peace, and to always stay near to God. That secret is, I'm going to tell you that in a second. But before I do that, I want to welcome you to this channel. And if it's your first time, don't forget to subscribe. Click on thumbs up for this video so that it can help other people to reach it.   

Now that weapon, that source of our strength, spiritual strength is the blood of Jesus. See the human body, the **7%** of our human body is blood and blood in our human body has about seven main functions,   
1) it receives our waste,   
2) it sends oxygen,   
3) it transports nutrients,   
4) it sends hormones,   
5) it maintains balance in the fluids,   
6) it sends heat, and 
7) fights micro organisms.  

You know as the blood in your human body fulfills the seven functions, the blood of Jesus Christ, in the body of Jesus Christ does the same. You know,   
1) it can fight the enemy.   
2) It brings forgiveness.   
3) It brings joy. 
4) It brings peace.  

As we're going to look at it in just a moment, the power of the blood of Jesus Christ. So many people are weighted down today and guilt, condemnation and defeat, because they haven't truly discovered **the power of the blood**. May I remind you that all that nine plagues in Egypt, they didn't cause the Pharaoh to snap, break and submit to the will of God, but it was the blood. It was when the lamb was slain. It was when the blood was put over the doorposts. And the angel of death went that night and killed the firstborn in Egypt. There's something shifted, something changed. And that plague Israel was protected from the plague through the blood of the Lamb. It this became a Passover for Israel, because this was the time when the angel of destruction passed over the houses. I believe, as you recognize as you receive this revelation right now, <u class = "red">sickness can pass over</u>. <u class = "red">depression can pass over</u>, <u class = "red">fear can pass over</u>, <u class = "red">anxiety can pass over</u> your life. God will deliver you and God will liberate you as you discover the revelation of the blood of Jesus. Let's dive in.   

We must understand that life is in the blood. Leviticus 17:11, it says, For the life of the flesh is in the blood. The moment you lose your blood, you lose your life. When you take somebody's blood, you take somebody's life, we see that the blood of Jesus, the Bible says four things about the blood of Jesus that (1) it's the innocent blood in Matthew 27:4. The scripture says also that (2) the blood of Jesus is precious blood, 1 Peter 1:19. (3) The blood of Jesus is also the blood of sprinkling, Hebrews 12:24, and (4) the blood of Jesus is the blood of everlasting covenant Hebrews 13:20.  The blood of Jesus is powerful. From the beginning, we have seen that God required the shedding of blood for the forgiveness of sin, to reconnect with humanity. This was a some brutal, you know, weird little practice is that God is holy, we are mortals, we are sinful by nature, and to approach this Holy God, our sins must be atone for, our sins must be covered, something needs to pay for that. And so Israel had these lambs, these goats, these bulls that were died in their place, until this all was a shadow until this being, the Son of God, Jesus, whom John the Baptist said, this is the Lamb of God who takes the sins of this world until Jesus died in our place. And after that, the sacrifices became unnecessary because the price was paid. And that's why when he was dying on the cross, he shouted, It is finished. In other words, it is paid in full, the power of the blood.   

Let me mention nine things that you can start experiencing today in your life, if you receive the revelation of the blood of Jesus.  

<b><font class = "font_upper">Number one</font></b>, the blood of Jesus forgives us or remits our sins, Matthew 26:20-28, it says that through his blood, we experience a remission of sins. If you are dealing with guilt, maybe you're watching and you're not a believer, maybe you will weighted down with your guilt and your shame. Maybe the things that you've done, you promised you'll never do. You're plagued with that. Shame and guilt. There's only one place where you can release yourself from those sins. It's not punishing yourself. It's coming to the cross and receiving the forgiveness of sins and you know, the, why you can receive the forgiveness of sins is because of his blood. He gave his blood to give you his life. He took your sin upon himself. So you can experience freedom from your sin. Oh, my God, this is so good.  

<b><font class = "font_upper">Number two</font></b> benefit that you can experience from the blood of Jesus is life. In John 6:53, it says, Then Jesus said to the most assuredly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh If you have the Son of Man and drink his blood, you will have no life in you. Now, of course, this is not referring for us to physically drink his blood. First of all, that's not possible. Because we don't have that physical blood. He's talking about us placing our trust in what he did on the cross and recognizing that he shed his blood for us. And as you begin to believe in that and also partake the Holy Communion, you will begin to experience life so many people have death inside of them, because they live in the flesh instead of in the Spirit. They rely on their efforts, instead of what Jesus did on the cross, they lose sight of the blood, and then they lose life.   

<b><font class = "font_upper">Number three</font></b>, the power of the blood causes you to dwell in Christ and Jesus to live in you let Yes, imagine how awesome that is. In John 6:56, Jesus says, He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in Me and I in him, do you want to dwell in Jesus? He says, There's one way eat my flesh and drink my blood. I believe this speaks of us partaking of communion. But this also speaks of a deeper truth, that we have to live with the revelation, that Christ lives in me through the blood. I am in Jesus through the blood, not through my denomination, not that through my religion, not through my good works, not through my Bible study, prayer, fasting, discipline and holy living. It's through the blood, that Christ lives in me and I live in Christ.   

<b><font class = "font_upper">Number four</font></b>, through the blood, we are purchased as a church. In Acts 20:28, we see that Jesus purchased, God purchased the church with his own blood. God didn't just pick us up on the market. We were purchased with His blood. Now God didn't pay the devil. A lot of people say, Oh, God paid the devil. God owes nothing to the devil. God paid himself because it's God's holiness, the demand that our punishment and the blood of Jesus was the sufficient payment. It wasn't in Bitcoin, gold, silver, or exchange of goods. It was his own blood that became a payment through which that transaction, where we went from darkness into His marvelous light, and we became his own, he became our Lord, we became his precious possession.   

<b><font class = "font_upper">Number five</font></b>, through the blood of Jesus, we are near God, I love this. Hebrews 2:13, but now in Christ Jesus, You who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, if you feel distant from God right now, if you feel like you and God are in different planets, if you feel like you have nothing near, nothing that brings you near God, there's one thing that brings you near God, and it's the blood of Jesus. Hebrews 10:18, it says, Therefore, brethren, having boldness to enter the holiest by the blood of Jesus, the Holy of Holy, the priest, high priest could only enter one time a year on the Day of Atonement. Even regular priests could not go into the Holy of Holy, where the presence of God was, once a year on the Day of Atonement. But when Jesus died, he ripped that veil that kept people and priests away from the Holy of Holy. And today, you can enter the Holy of Holy. But there is one requirement - through the blood. There's only one way, there's one direction, there's one path, there's one, one code, there's one password into the Holy of Holy. And that password is the blood. Maybe you're not living in the presence of God as you want to. Let me ask you a question. Do you have the revelation of the blood? Have you applied the blood? Do you believe in the blood? Do you drink, consume, and this may sound crazy, but do you take Holy Communion? reflecting that your nearness to God, His dwelling place, dwelling presence in you is only, listen only, not the blood plus Church attendance, not the blood and Bible reading, only, mo (?) somebody dropped that in a comment only through the blood.   

<b><font class = "font_upper">Number six</font></b>, his blood brings us peace. In Colossians 1:20. It says that by Him to reconcile all things to himself, by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross, you know, when you have peace with God, you will have peace with yourself. You will have peace in this world. So many people do not have peace, they live in anxiety, they live in worry and they live in constant state of being anxious. They lack calmness in their soul. And they try to achieve that through meditation. They tried to achieve that through yoga. They try to achieve that through exercise. They try to achieve that through breathing. But the Bible gives us one way to experience peace, my friend, you don't need peace with you, in you. If you don't have peace with him. Your peace in here in your heart comes from your peace from Him. And God says you can access my peace in the midst of your store. If you can access my peace in the midst of turbulent times in your life, you can access my peace in the midst of times that your understanding and your knowledge cannot give you because his peace passes understanding. His peace is greater than knowledge. It comes from the Prince of Peace. But again, the key is the blood. The key is the blood. And when you experience the cleansing of his blood, it cleanses your conscience. It cleanses your heart from that works as it says, in Hebrews 9:14, you experience peace that passes understanding. Number seven, the blood of Jesus sanctifies us to be sanctified is to be set apart, they will sanctify priests, to the work of priesthood. by sprinkling blood on them. They would set apart vessels and different utensils by touching them with blood. But today, God sets you apart through his blood. Hebrews 13:12, it says, Therefore, Jesus also, that He might sanctify the people with his own blood suffered outside the gate. We're not sanctified by merely removing negative things from our life, by merely making the decision not to do this. We're not sanctified by crying big tears at the altar, and confessing our sins. All these things have their place. But the sanctifying agent that God uses today, to set his people apart, is the blood of Jesus. Number eight, it makes us complete for every good work. In Hebrews 13:20-21. It says, made the God of peace, who brought up our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead, the Great Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, make you complete in every good work to do His will, working in you, what is well pleasing in His sight, through Christ Jesus, to whom the glory forever and ever, you want to be made complete, for every good work? Do you want to be prepared for every good work? There is a secret. It's the blood. It's the blood of Jesus Christ, the blood of everlasting covenant. It prepares you for every good work. And lastly, the blood of Jesus is the means by which we overcome the accuser. Revelation 12:11, And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony, and they did not love their lives, till death. In summary, I want to thank Jesus for His precious blood. I want to be sprinkled by the blood of Christ. I want to embrace the blood of the new covenant, the blood of the everlasting, eternal covenant. I want to experience that life in the blood. Maybe you're battling with that right now, with guilt, their sense of fairness, a sense of distance between you and the Lord. Maybe you're experiencing no peace. Perhaps you're struggling with attacks of the enemy. Can I pray for you right now? Can I ask God to bring this revelation of the blood, some of you, you might need to take communion right after this. To solidify this revelation of the blood, you will experience freedom that comes through the blood. Lord, I pray the name of Jesus for my dear viewer, let revelation of the blood of Jesus visit them, open their eyes to the beauty of the Lamb of God, I speak that the angel of stress will pass over that all kinds of angels of death will pass over them that they will experience life. peace, freedom, remission of sin, preparation for every good work, reconciliation, sanctification, cleansing, victory over accusing voices, condemning thoughts, intrusive thoughts, freedom through the blood. In Jesus name, amen. Thank you for watching this video. And as always, I'm not sure if you knew, but I have a school online, and it's free of charge, where we release courses every few months, and more courses to come. It's flat school that comm make sure to check it out. If this video and other content has been a blessing to you, I want to invite you to partner with our ministry. We release reading plans, blogs, podcasts stream, we release books, short books, devotionals, as well as so many other things. We touch the world through digital content, people are being delivered, healed and saved every single day. No exaggeration. And all of this is possible because of people who support this ministry. Thank you for those of you who are already doing it. And for those of you if the Lord puts on your heart to do that, we would really appreciate that. Until next time, bye


<style type = "text/css">
u.red{
  border-bottom:1px solid red;
}
</style>